[DOCS] Adds evaluate data frame analytics API conceptual overview (#445)
elastic/stack-docs: docs/en/stack/ml/df-analytics/evaluatedf-api.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[ml-dfanalytics-evaluate]]
== Evaluating {dfanalytics}

Using the {dfanalytics} features to gain insights from a data set is an 
iterative process. You might need to experiment with different analyses, 

> parameters, ways to transform data before you arrive to a result that satisfies 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters, and ways to transform data before you arrive to a result that satisfies 
```

your use case. A valuable companion to this process is the 

> {ref}/evaluate-dfanalytics.html[{evaluatedf-api}] that allows you to evaluate 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{ref}/evaluate-dfanalytics.html[{evaluatedf-api}], which enables you to evaluate 
```

> the {dfanalytics} performance against a marked up data set. It helps to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the {dfanalytics} performance against a marked up data set. It helps you 
```

> understand error distributions and to know the points where the {dfanalytics} 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
understand error distributions and identifies the points where the {dfanalytics} 
```

model performing well or less trustworthily.

> {evaluatedf-api-cap} is designed for providing a general evaluation mechanism 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {evaluatedf-api} is designed for providing a general evaluation mechanism 
```

> for the different kinds of {dfanalytics}. That means that every type of analysis 

Reviewer: > That means that every type of analysis...

This sentence seems strange to me, since the API only seems to have one type of evaluation at this time. Perhaps it should be omitted until there are other types?

can be evaluated by using one of the evaluation types that the {evaluatedf-api} 

> offers. For example, the results of an {oldetection} analysis can be evaluated 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
offers. For example, you can evaluate the results of an {oldetection} analysis
```

> by using {binarysc} through the {evaluatedf-api}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
by using {binarysc}.
```

> To evaluate an algorithm with this API, you need to annotate your index that 

Reviewer: > To evaluate an algorithm...

It stands out that we're talking about evaluating an algorithm whereas up to now we've been talking about evaluating data frame analytics.  Is the change here important?

> contains the results of the analysis with a field that marks each {datafame} row 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
contains the results of the analysis with a field that marks each {dataframe} row 
```

> with the ground truth (for example, in case of {oldetection}, whether the given 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the ground truth. For example, in case of {oldetection}, the field must indicate whether the given 
```

> data point really is an outlier or not). The {evaluatedf-api} will evaluate the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data point really is an outlier or not. The {evaluatedf-api} evaluates the 
```

performance of the {dfanalytics} against this manually provided ground truth.

[discrete]
[[ml-dfanalytics-binary-soft-classification]]
=== {binarysc-cap} evaluation

> {oldetection-cap} essentially classifies each data point in a data set into one 

Reviewer 2: While it is great that prior to this we provide an example of outlier detection, I think we should not use outlier detection terminology here. Binary soft classification can be used for other types of analyses too. For instance, we could start with:

```This evaluation type is suitable for analyses which calculate a probability that each data point in a data set is a member of a class or not. ``` 

or something along those lines.

of two categories (outlier or normal), this process is called {binarysc}. The 
{binarysc} evaluation type uses four different metrics to evaluate the model 
performance:

* confusion matrix
* precision
* recall
* receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve.

[discrete]
[[ml-dfanalytics-confusion-matrix]]
==== Confusion matrix

> Confusion matrix tells you four measures of how well the {dfanalytics} worked on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A confusion matrix provides four measures of how well the {dfanalytics} worked on 
```

> your data set: true positives (TP), true negatives (TN), false positives (FP), 

Reviewer: > your data set: true positives...

I think everything after the colon can be omitted since that information already follows in the bulleted list (though the acronyms should be added to the bulleted list in that case).

and false negatives (FN).

> * True positives: Outliers that the analysis identified as outliers.

Reviewer 2: We should not use outlier detection terminology here.

Author: I changed the wording of this section to something more general and kept outlier detection only as an example in the next explanatory paragraph to provide more context for the user.

* True negatives: Normal values that the analysis identified as normals.
* False positives: Normal values that the analysis misidentified as outliers.
* False negatives: Outliers that the analysis misidentified as normals.

Although, the {evaluatedf-api} can compute the confusion matrix out of the 
{oldetection} results, these results are not binary values (outlier/not 

> outlier), but a number between 0 and 1 called {olscore}. This value captures how 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
outlier), but a number between 0 and 1 called the {olscore}. This value captures how 
```

likely it is for a data point to be an outlier. It means that it is up to the 
user who is evaluating the results to decide what is the threshold or cutoff 
point at which the data point will be considered as an outlier. For example, the 
user can say that all the data points with an {olscore} higher than 0.5 will be 
considered as outliers.

To take this complexity into account, the {evaluatedf-api} returns the confusion 

> matrix at different thresholds (at 0.25, 0.5, and 0.75 by default).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
matrix at different thresholds (by default, 0.25, 0.5, and 0.75).
```

[discrete]
[[ml-dfanalytics-precision-recall]]
==== Precision and recall

> Confusion matrix is a useful measure, but it could be hard to compare the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A confusion matrix is a useful measure, but it could be hard to compare the 
```

> results across the different algorithms. Precision and recall values are for 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
results across the different algorithms. Precision and recall values
```

> summarizing the algorithm performance as a single number that makes it easier to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
summarize the algorithm performance as a single number that makes it easier to 
```

compare the evaluation results.

Precision shows how many of the data points that the algorithm identified as 
outliers were actually outliers. 

> *Precision = TP/TP+FP*

Reviewer: > *Precision = TP/TP+FP*

In my opinion, this shouldn't be bolded.  I'd be inclined to just include it in the previous paragraph. Something like: "...actually outliers. It is the number of true positives divided by the sum of the true positives and false positives (TP/(TP+FP))."

Recall answers a slightly different question. This value shows how many of the 
data points that are actual outliers were identified correctly as outliers.

> *Recall = TP/TP+FN*

Reviewer: > *Recall = TP/TP+FN*

Ditto my previous comment, I think this looks like a section heading as-is.

> Of course, you need to define different threshold levels for computing precision 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As was the case for the confusion matrix, you also need to define different threshold levels for computing precision 
```

> and recall for the same reason as we see it in the case of the confusion matrix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and recall.
```

[discrete]
[[ml-dfanalytics-roc]]

> ==== Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve

Reviewer: You only need to define the acronym once, so I'd suggest doing it in the text not the title.
```suggestion
==== Receiver operating characteristic curve
```

The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve is a plot that represents the 

> performance of the binary classification process at different thresholds. ROC 

Reviewer: I'd suggest change "ROC" to "it" or "The ROC curve":
```suggestion
performance of the binary classification process at different thresholds. It 
```

compares the rate of true positives against the rate of false positives at the 
different threshold levels to create the curve. From this plot, you can compute 

> the area under the curve (AUC) value which is a number between 0 and 1. The 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the area under the curve (AUC) value, which is a number between 0 and 1. The 
```
